+++
outputs = ["Reveal"]
weight = 60
+++

{{< slide 
    id="pipelines" 
    transition="convex" 
    background-image="./images/darkbackground1.jpg" 
    background-size=100%
    background-position="center"
>}}

{{% section %}}

## Pipeline Products

One can weave together pipelines with a number of tools;

1. {{< frag c="Jenkins/Jenkins-x" >}}
1. {{< frag c="CircleCI" >}}
1. {{< frag c="Semaphore" >}}
1. {{< frag c="Tekton" >}}
1. {{< frag c="Azure DevOps" >}}

---

## Azure DevOps Pipelines
The Azure PaaS solution for creating pipelines is Azure DevOps.

- {{< frag c="AKA -> VSTS Online" >}}

---

## ADO Classic Pipelines

There are 2 parts to classic pipelines;

1. {{< frag c="Build Pipeline" >}}
2. {{< frag c="Release Pipeline" >}}

---

## ADO Classic Pipelines

The build pipeline can reside as YAML code in the source repository (azure-pipeline.yaml).

The release pipeline is pretty much a manual affair (unless you are clever with json and apis)

---

### Classic Pipeline Notes

- Build pipelines can be declarative YAML in the source repo 
- Release pipelines are entirely manual (ClickOps!)
- There is a 'hidden' pipeline artifact repository that bridge the two
- It is smart to use your own artifact repository instead (just sayin')
- Just way too... manual.

{{% note %}}
- Now is a great time to show a live example of a build/release pipeline layout and structure.
- Divorcing your pipelines from ADO pipeline artifacts gives greater control over your artifact longevity and forces you to design smarter pipelines.
{{% /note %}}

---

The 'Multi-Stage pipeline' has been released into preview.

It overcomes some of the deficiences of the classic pipeline.

I deploy these exclusively.

---

### Multi-Stage Pipelines

- Both build and release code can be expressed as YAML and shifted left
- The introduction of 'environments' for deployments
- Can create templatized code for pipelines in another git repo
- Can reference, trigger, and pull artifacts from other pipelines

---

### Multi-Stage Limitations

- To use the deployment element a pipeline artifact MUST have been created
- Manual intervention of deployments is limited to 'Environments'
- It is bleeding edge

{{% note %}}
- Now is a great time to show a live example of multi-stage pipelines.
- Anything called 'classic' is usually fast on its way to deprecation.
{{% /note %}}

{{% /section %}}
